What can I do to improve the situation?
There is 2 way you can do to improve the situation by yourselve. Diet Control and Stay physically active.
I would like to know how to diet properly.
In a healthy diet, supposed in a dinning plate, it's good have raughly 1/3 plates of carbohydrates food, 1/3 plates of high fiber food, 1/3 plate of high protein food and one thumbs full of good fat. For diabetes, obesed or overweighted patient it's best to avoid refined sugar, refined flour, refined grains, trans-fat, saturated fat, rich omega-6 fatty acid, high glycemic index food and avoid red meat.
What is Glycemic Index?
The glycemic index (GI) is a ranking system that classifies carb-containing foods by their effect on blood sugar levels. It was created in the early 1980s by Dr. David Jenkins. GI having the scale 1 to 100. GI less than 56 consider low GI food. GI between 56 to 69 Consider medium GI food. GI equal to 70 or Higher consider High GI food. Diabetes patient is advised to avoid high GI food. All food low GI would be best.
Why should we avoid High Glycemic Index GI Food?
High GI food disolved glucose too quickily in to blood stream, causes the blood sugar in blood stream spike up rapidly and fade away quickily. These causes the blood sugar level and insulin level unstable. Eating foods high on the glycemic index has been linked to over eating and increased risk of all matabolic disease.
Why should we avoid refined sugar, refined grain, refined flour?
refined sugar, refined grain and refined flour has High Glycemic Index (GI). And these refined carbohydrates have been stripped of almost all fiber, vitamins and minerals. For this reason, they can be considered as "empty" calories with no nutrient.
What is good fat?
There are 2 types of fats in our diet. Saturated fat and unsaturated fat. Saturated fat is bad for health. Usually it's found in abundance in red meat. Unsaturated fat can be further sub catagories in to Omega 3, Omega 6, Omega 9 fatty acid. Omega 3 and Omega 6 is essential fatty acid. Omega 3 is crucial for diabetes and obesed patient. The anti-inflamatory property of omega-3 can improve diabetes and obesed condition as well as prevent metabolism disorders. Patient should minimized Omega-6 fatty acid food which is pro-inflamatory, too high in omega-6 fatty acid can worsen the condition. Omega 9 is not an essential fatty acid where our body can generate it ourselve.
How to get Omega-3 acid food?
Seafood especially oily fish is rich in omega-3 fatty acid, however we should avoid fried it. High temperature will distroy the poly-unsaturated fat and turn them into saturated fat and even trans fat that worsen the condition.
Why should I eat high protein food?
protein able to suppress appetite, promote fullness and increase metabolism which can help you lose weight. When you reduce your calorie intake, your metabolism slows down. This is partly due to muscle loss. However, research suggests that a higher protein intake can help protect against muscle loss and keep your metabolic rate up 
Why should I eat high food.
Fiber does not get digested and tends to reach your large intestine relatively unchanged. The fiber that benefits your gut bacteria is known as prebiotic fiber or fermentable fiber. It is considered very beneficial for health and body weight. Gut bacteria helps fight inflammation. There is also mounting evidence that inflammation is associated with weight gain and obesity
Why is physically active imporant?
Exercise improve blood sugar levels, manage weight and reduce the risk of diabetes complication like heart disease and stroke. 
How do a diabetes patient exercise safely?
Before jump in to fitness program do consult the doctor regarding to the program. This can avoid the risk that come from blood sugar level fluctuation. It's good to monitor the blood sugar level before exercise. Blood sugar level lower than 5.6 mmol/L is too low to exercise safely. Eat a small snack containing 15 to 30 grams of carbohydrates, such as fruit juice, fruit, crackers or even glucose tablets before you begin your workout. 5.6 to 13.9 mmol/L are good to go. For most people, this is a safe pre-exercise blood sugar range. 13.9 mmol/L or higher. This is a caution zone — your blood sugar may be too high to exercise safely. Before exercising, test your urine for ketones — substances made when your body breaks down fat for energy. The presence of ketones indicates that your body doesn't have enough insulin to control your blood sugar.If you exercise when you have a high level of ketones, you risk ketoacidosis — a serious complication of diabetes that needs immediate treatment. Instead of exercising immediately, take measures to correct the high blood sugar levels and wait to exercise until your ketone test indicates an absence of ketones in your urine.

